editing-apps/data-sources/adding-ingredients/ingredient-components.md, before:

# Components of columns and measures

Each column and measure has a set of components that are configured as you add them. When adding an advanced column or measure, you may need to configure these components manually. Here's a reference to understand what the components mean:

| component               | required by               | description                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        |
| ----------------------- | ------------------------- | ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| kind                    | all                       | The ingredient type, either `Dimension` (for columns) or `Measure` (for column measures).                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          |
| field                   | all                       | The instructions for what will display in the app. These instructions can be simple (e.g., a reference to a single field) or more [complex](../advanced-ingredients/).                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             |
| singular                | all                       | The label displayed for measures or when a single column value is selected.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        |
| plural                  | all columns               | The label displayed when more than one column value is selected.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   |
| format                  | measures and time columns | The [number or date format](ingredient-formats.md) to be displayed.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                |
| icon                    | all                       | The [Font Awesome icon](https://fontawesome.com/icons?d=gallery) to display with your ingredient. By default, columns have `check-square`<img src="../../../.gitbook/assets/check-square-solid.svg" alt="" data-size="line">, time columns have `calendar`<img src="../../../.gitbook/assets/calendar-solid.svg" alt="" data-size="line">, place columns have `map-marker-alt` <img src="../../../.gitbook/assets/map-marker-alt-solid.svg" alt="" data-size="line"> , and measures have `hashtag` <img src="../../../.gitbook/assets/hashtag-solid.svg" alt="" data-size="line">. |
| latitude\_field         | place columns             | Used in place columns to set the latitude field.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   |
| longitude\_field        | place columns             | Used in place columns to set the longitude field.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  |
| lookup                  | none                      | See [lookup columns](../advanced-ingredients/lookup-dimensions.md) section.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        |
| buckets                 | none                      | See [bucketed columns](../advanced-ingredients/bucketed-dimensions.md) section.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    |
| buckets\_default\_label | none                      | See [bucketed columns](../advanced-ingredients/bucketed-dimensions.md) section.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    |
| reverse                 | measures                  | By default, higher numbers are deemed better. To flip this, add `reverse: true` to the measure definition.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         |

Commit message:

GITBOOK-459: Add id_field, and examples page

editing-apps/data-sources/adding-ingredients/ingredient-components.md, after:

# Components of columns and measures

Each column and measure has a set of components that are configured as you add them. When adding an advanced column or measure, you may need to configure these components manually. Here's a reference to understand what the components mean:

| component               | required by               | description                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        |
| ----------------------- | ------------------------- | ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| kind                    | all                       | The ingredient type, either `Dimension` (for columns) or `Measure` (for column measures).                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          |
| field                   | all                       | The instructions for what will display in the app. These instructions can be simple (e.g., a reference to a single field) or more [complex](../advanced-ingredients/).                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             |
| id\_field               | Optional for columns      | Specify a custom unique identifier for columns. Especially useful for selections and filtering in unique cases.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    |
| singular                | all                       | The label displayed for measures or when a single column value is selected.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        |
| plural                  | all columns               | The label displayed when more than one column value is selected.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   |
| format                  | measures and time columns | The [number or date format](ingredient-formats.md) to be displayed.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                |
| icon                    | all                       | The [Font Awesome icon](https://fontawesome.com/icons?d=gallery) to display with your ingredient. By default, columns have `check-square`<img src="../../../.gitbook/assets/check-square-solid.svg" alt="" data-size="line">, time columns have `calendar`<img src="../../../.gitbook/assets/calendar-solid.svg" alt="" data-size="line">, place columns have `map-marker-alt` <img src="../../../.gitbook/assets/map-marker-alt-solid.svg" alt="" data-size="line"> , and measures have `hashtag` <img src="../../../.gitbook/assets/hashtag-solid.svg" alt="" data-size="line">. |
| latitude\_field         | place columns             | Used in place columns to set the latitude field.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   |
| longitude\_field        | place columns             | Used in place columns to set the longitude field.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  |
| lookup                  | none                      | See [lookup columns](../advanced-ingredients/lookup-dimensions.md) section.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        |
| buckets                 | none                      | See [bucketed columns](../advanced-ingredients/bucketed-dimensions.md) section.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    |
| buckets\_default\_label | none                      | See [bucketed columns](../advanced-ingredients/bucketed-dimensions.md) section.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    |
| reverse                 | measures                  | By default, higher numbers are deemed better. To flip this, add `reverse: true` to the measure definition.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         |
