editing-apps/story-designer/slices/README.md, before:

# Slices

Slices are the basic building blocks of your story. Slices are added to [sections](../sections.md), and each slice can have text and/or an image or [chart](../charts/).&#x20;

## Adding and deleting slices

### Adding a slice

To add a slice to an empty section, select the **+** button within the empty section.&#x20;

![Adding a slice to an empty section](<../../../.gitbook/assets/image (334).png>)

To add a slice to a section that has one or more slices, click the **+** where you want the new slice to appear.

![Adding a slice to a section with one or more slices](<../../../.gitbook/assets/image (396).png>)

### Duplicating a slice

Rather than adding a brand new slice, it may be easier to duplicate and modify an existing slice. To duplicate a slice, select the duplicate icon (![](../../../.gitbook/assets/clone-regular.svg)) in the slice you want to duplicate. The duplicated slice will appear directly below the original slice.&#x20;

![Duplicating a slice](<../../../.gitbook/assets/image (379).png>)

### Deleting a slice

To delete a slice, select the delete icon (![](<../../../.gitbook/assets/trash-alt-regular (1).svg>)) in the slice you want to delete.&#x20;

![Deleting a slice](<../../../.gitbook/assets/image (333) (1).png>)

## Slice content

Slices can contain text only, a chart or image only, or a combination of text and  a chart, or text and an image.

### Adding text

To add text to a slice, simply type in the text area. Use the text editor to style text and add emojis and links.

### Adding a chart

To add a chart to a slice, select the **+ Add Chart** button and select the desired [chart](../charts/) from the list.&#x20;

![Click the + Add Chart button to add a chart to a slice ](<../../../.gitbook/assets/image (378).png>)

Until you configure your chart, the chart will display as a placeholder. This gives you a sense of what the chart will look like.&#x20;

![A placeholder Scatterplot chart](<../../../.gitbook/assets/image (370).png>)

### Adding an image

To add an image to a slice, select the **Add Image** button and either upload your own image or find an image on Unsplash.&#x20;

![Click the Add Image button to add an image to a slice](<../../../.gitbook/assets/image (367).png>)

## Reordering slices

To reorder slices, drag and drop the slice where you want it to display. You can reorder slices within a section and move slices to different sections.

## Slice layouts

If a slice has a chart, there are four layout options that control how the chart will appear in relation to the text. To adjust the layout, hover over the chart configuration box, click the layout button, and select the desired layout option.

| ![](../../../.gitbook/assets/arrow-down-solid.svg)  Chart below text      | <p>The slice text will display above the chart. This is the default layout.</p><p></p><p></p> |
| ------------------------------------------------------------------------- | --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| ![](<../../../.gitbook/assets/arrow-right-solid (1).svg>)  Chart on right | The slice text will display on the left, and the chart will display on the right.             |
| ![](../../../.gitbook/assets/arrow-left-solid.svg)  Chart on left         | The chart will display on the left and the slice text will display on the right.              |
| ![](../../../.gitbook/assets/arrow-up-solid.svg)  Chart above text        | The chart will display above the slice text.                                                  |

## Slice backgrounds

By default, slices have a transparent background (revealing the section background color). To adjust the slice background color, hover over the slice, click the paint drop ![](../../../.gitbook/assets/tint-solid.svg), and select the desired color from the color picker. If you have a specific color in mind, you can enter the hex code for that color after clicking the **Custom** button.&#x20;

Commit message:

GitBook: [#424] add back image orientation options

editing-apps/story-designer/slices/README.md, after:

# Slices

Slices are the basic building blocks of your story. Slices are added to [sections](../sections.md), and each slice can have text and/or an image or [chart](../charts/).&#x20;

## Adding and deleting slices

### Adding a slice

To add a slice to an empty section, select the **+** button within the empty section.&#x20;

![Adding a slice to an empty section](<../../../.gitbook/assets/image (334).png>)

To add a slice to a section that has one or more slices, click the **+** where you want the new slice to appear.

![Adding a slice to a section with one or more slices](<../../../.gitbook/assets/image (396).png>)

### Duplicating a slice

Rather than adding a brand new slice, it may be easier to duplicate and modify an existing slice. To duplicate a slice, select the duplicate icon (![](../../../.gitbook/assets/clone-regular.svg)) in the slice you want to duplicate. The duplicated slice will appear directly below the original slice.&#x20;

![Duplicating a slice](<../../../.gitbook/assets/image (379).png>)

### Deleting a slice

To delete a slice, select the delete icon (![](<../../../.gitbook/assets/trash-alt-regular (1).svg>)) in the slice you want to delete.&#x20;

![Deleting a slice](<../../../.gitbook/assets/image (333) (1).png>)

## Slice content

Slices can contain text only, a chart or image only, or a combination of text and  a chart, or text and an image.

### Adding text

To add text to a slice, simply type in the text area. Use the text editor to style text and add emojis and links.

### Adding a chart

To add a chart to a slice, select the **+ Add Chart** button and select the desired [chart](../charts/) from the list.&#x20;

![Click the + Add Chart button to add a chart to a slice ](<../../../.gitbook/assets/image (378).png>)

Until you configure your chart, the chart will display as a placeholder. This gives you a sense of what the chart will look like.&#x20;

![A placeholder Scatterplot chart](<../../../.gitbook/assets/image (370).png>)

### Adding an image

To add an image to a slice, select the **Add Image** button and either upload your own image or find an image on Unsplash.&#x20;

![Click the Add Image button to add an image to a slice](<../../../.gitbook/assets/image (367).png>)

## Reordering slices

To reorder slices, drag and drop the slice where you want it to display. You can reorder slices within a section and move slices to different sections.

## Slice layouts

If a slice has a chart (or image), there are four layout options that control how the chart (or image) will appear in relation to the text. To adjust the layout, hover over the chart (or image) configuration box, click the layout button, and select the desired layout option.

| ![](../../../.gitbook/assets/arrow-down-solid.svg)  Chart/Image below text      | <p>The slice text will display above the chart/image. This is the default layout.</p><p></p><p></p> |
| ------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| ![](<../../../.gitbook/assets/arrow-right-solid (1).svg>)  Chart/Image on right | The slice text will display on the left, and the chart/image will display on the right.             |
| ![](../../../.gitbook/assets/arrow-left-solid.svg)  Chart/Image on left         | The chart/image will display on the left and the slice text will display on the right.              |
| ![](../../../.gitbook/assets/arrow-up-solid.svg)  Chart/Image above text        | The chart/image will display above the slice text.                                                  |

## Slice backgrounds

By default, slices have a transparent background (revealing the section background color). To adjust the slice background color, hover over the slice, click the paint drop ![](../../../.gitbook/assets/tint-solid.svg), and select the desired color from the color picker. If you have a specific color in mind, you can enter the hex code for that color after clicking the **Custom** button.&#x20;
